[SATOKO]
What a childish prank.
Still, it's a change of tactics.
They've never come
directly to the house
to antagonize me before.
I saw a couple of snoops
when I was doing the laundry.
[TEPPEI] They musta been
the ones who did this!
Please, Uncle.
Do your best to stay calm.
If you let your rage consume you
and turn to violence,
that will only give the
bullies a reason to escalate.
I understand how you're feeling,
but if we lash out‐‐
[TEPPEI]
Don't you worry, kid.
It took me long enough,
but I finally realized
my stupid hair‐trigger temper's
to blame not only
for the shitty life
I've been leading up till now,
but also the pain
I caused the family
I love so damn much.
[chuckles]
I was such a moron.
[SATOKO]
Yes, you certainly were.
[IRIE]
Well, Maebara.
You're in charge here.
Want to kick things off?
Everyone, thank you
so much for coming today.
As you probably know,
Satoko Hojo has been
locked in her house
by her uncle
for several days now!
The same uncle who abused her
and then abandoned
her for over a year.
How is that man fit
to be her "guardian"?
One of our own
has been suffering.
We can't just stand by
and let it happen
a second longer!
Which is why we're
glad you've joined us.
We'll show these bureaucrats
how much we care!
We won't abandon her
like her uncle did!
For the last three days,
we've been petitioning
Child Welfare, and we won't rest
until they agree
to handle Satoko's case!
[CROWD cheers]
So, any good news?
It felt exactly like
a do‐over of yesterday.
So, they're just gonna keep
monitoring the situation?
That's right.
They set a timeline.
They'll make their
decision in a month.
A whole month?
How much damage are
these pencil‐pushers
willing to let her uncle do?
For what it's worth,
it seems they're
taking us seriously.
[MION] We told everyone
we'd be back at it tomorrow,
but I don't know
if they'll all be here.
This is so frustrating.
If they don't come back,
I will even if it's by myself!
I'm still in this.
If we're going
to hope for a miracle,
we have to make one together.
Exactly.
[MION]
Mm.
[VOLUNTEER D]
Look, kid, the dam war
is all over and
done with, all right?
We've had our fill
of standing out front
of government buildings
holding signs.
What does the stupid dam war
have to do with anything?
I don't care about
your good old days!
'Cause now, I've got
a war of my own!
Is that how you
speak to your elders?
The hell's wrong
with kids these days?
Right. Seems you're
jumping into the ring,
so let's see what you got.
Let's be honest
about what this is.
You're scared there
are people in the village
who won't help
anyone named Hojo.
Isn't that the real problem?
[OOISHI]
Interesting.
Mr. Maebara's on fire.
He really believes he's
doing the right thing here.
Without even realizing it,
he's contributing
to Satoko's misery,
all because
his friends duped him
into believing their ugly story.
He thinks he's
protecting the girl,
when really, tearing her away
from her surviving family
will only cause her more pain.
If he knew the truth,
things might be playing
out very differently.
For their part,
the villagers are happy
to use the Hojos as an excuse
to get riled up and
band together again,
just like they did
in the good old days.
The new kid is proving
to be a very useful pawn
for the culprits
behind the curse.
[chuckles]
I'm impressed.
Good work, Mr. Maebara.
[KUMAGAI] Yesterday's
got nothing on today's crowd.
I've gotta hand it to him.
The whole village responded
to his call to action.
Well, that's what it's
supposed to look like
they're doing, anyway.
What do you mean?
[OOISHI]
It's all going
according to the
village's grand plan.
Still, the kid knows how
to make his voice heard.
If he's going to be
a bigshot around here,
you may want to start thinking
about being nice to him now.
[KUMAGAI]
You're going?
[OOISHI chuckles]
Next spring,
I'll finally be old
enough to retire.
Might as well go out there
and make the chief
look good while I can.
[IRIE]
Is that...
Well, Mr. Maebara!
How are you doing this morning?
[HARAYAMA]
It's getting worse.
Well, um...
I guess I'll give
the police another call.
Right, I'll go get him.
Ooishi!
The Chief's on the radio
and he's calling for you!
Ah, thanks for the heads up.
Seems like my boss wants
to get hold of me, everyone, so
I'd appreciate it if you could
get this crowd to disperse.
So that's it.
I knew you were
going easy on 'em.
It's not like you
to talk things out.
You'd normally start
twisting that boy's arm
at the first excuse he gave you.
If Mr. Maebara wants
to play the hero for today,
I suppose
I don't mind letting him.
Hey, care for a smoke?
That boy charges headlong
through everything
in front of him.
He doesn't doubt for a
second that he's in the right.
Say again?
[OOISHI chuckles]
I think it's time
we play pretend,
and let the kid handle
the real work.
The kid?
[OOISHI]
Here they come.
Our VIPs.
Let's go, Kuma.
Why's he here?
[CWS CHIEF]
How does it look down there?
Any sign of them giving up
and going away?
Well, Detective Ooishi's
talking to them now, so...
[CWS CHIEF]
What happened?
Sir, they're coming now!
[RENA]
Okay, guys!
We're moving in!
Hang on, Satoko.
We're coming!
Whatever you're cooking up
there smells damn good.
[chortles]
It tastes good, too,
I might add.
Now, be a dear and
set the table, will you?
[TEPPEI]
Sure thing, happy to.
My sincerest apologies
for the trouble!
You're going to do something
to help Satoko, aren't you?
[CWS CHIEF]
Right away!
Assistant Manager!
Please head straight
to the Hojo residence!
[HARAYAMA]
You're sending me, sir?
But wouldn't her
case worker be better?
There's no time,
Satoko is in danger!
[HARAYAMA]
Understood!
I'm on my way!
[OOISHI] It's almost time
for us to move out, Kuma.
Things're heating up.
If we don't do something,
this bunch may scare
Teppei out of the village.
I don't understand.
Would that be a bad thing?
[OOISHI]
It most certainly would.
I need him to stick around
at least until Watanagashi.
A moment, Mr. Maebara.
Are you still gonna try
and get in our way now?
[OOISHI]
Not at all, Mr. Harayama?
If you're headed
for the Hojo residence,
I would be happy
to give you a ride.
Are you sure?
[RENA]
If the police are with them,
Satoko's uncle
will have no choice
but to let
Child Welfare come in.
Right, but why now?
You were against us
a little while ago.
So what changed?
[laughs]
The folks here at Child Welfare
never got a full view of how
bad things are in that house.
This way they get to see
it up close and in person.
Thanks for doing
this for us, Detective.
[OOISHI] This way please,
Mr. Harayama.
[OOISHI]
Oh, right!
Since that's dealt with,
could the crowd
kindly disperse now?
[HARAYAMA] You're Teppei
and Satoko Hojo, correct?
My name is Harayama,
and I'm from Okinomiya
Child Welfare Services.
Child Welfare?
Why the hell would you bring
this guy here, Detective?
The situation
is becoming urgent.
I thought letting him see
the truth for himself
would be faster than me
trying to lay it out for him.
What do you mean?
"See the truth for myself"?
The villagers have
banded together
to wage a harassment campaign
against me and my uncle.
‐‐Huh?
[KUMAGAI]
And you knew this was going on?
[OOISHI] They had reached out
to me for help a while ago.
[KUMAGAI]
Kinda fishy, though.
I mean, the whole village
coming together to bully them?
I would be skeptical of
such an ugly story myself,
if I heard it happened
anywhere but Hinamizawa...
I've searched
your home thoroughly,
and I've conducted
an interview with Satoko.
So what?
To put it very simply,
your living situation is nothing
like what the protesters
have been portraying.
That's what we've been sayin'!
So, then,
now that you see what
we're dealing with,
what will Child Welfare Services
be doing with the Hojos?
Having been born
and raised in Okinomiya,
I know Hinamizawa has
its own way of doing things.
And if the Sonozakis
are involved in this.
I don't know how
much our agency can do.
[OOISHI]
How about this, then?
Your agency can bow out
and let me take over the case.
Me and the Okinomiya
Police Department, of course.
Wait a minute, Ooishi,
we haven't asked the chief!
So, what do you say?
[sighs]
Hmm...
Agreed. I'll leave it to you.
That was the right move.
[OOISHI]
Come to think of it.
The Watanagashi festival
is tomorrow, isn't it?
[TEPPEI] Hmm?
What's that got to do with this?
You've heard of the curse of
Lord Oyashiro, haven't you?
You know it targets
the village's enemies.
Isn't that right?
And that means us.
[OOISHI] Exactly but the
ones who carry out this
so‐called curse
are garden‐variety thugs
and there's a good chance
they'll be coming
after your family.
I recommend you two
spend tomorrow inside.
[TEPPEI] Is that gonna be
enough to keep us safe?
We'll have eyes on your place.
I'll be here while
the festival's going on.
You're gonna be fine.
[phone rings]
Yes, who's there?
[SATOKO]
Rika?
[gasps]
Satoko, are you okay?
What happened?
Ooishi should
have come by today‐‐
[SATOKO]
Calm down, please.
I just got through having
a very similar
conversation with Keiichi.
[RIKA] So, what happened
when they showed up?
[SATOKO] I cried out
and begged them for help
and my uncle went
berserk and attacked me.
But Ooishi was able
to subdue him quickly
and they hauled him off to
the police station in Okinomiya.
[RIKA]
You're not hurt, are you?
[SATOKO]
I'm fine.
And I won't be needing
to worry about my uncle anymore
because he's never coming
back to this house again.
[RIKA]
That's good.
I'm so glad that you stood up
and fought for yourself.
You challenged fate and won.
[SATOKO]
Rika.
At long last, I can be free.
She must think that
she's finally gotten
to the happy ending.
But the curse of Lord Oyashiro
is about to begin in earnest.
[RENA]
So Satoko's going to get to
celebrate
Watanagashi with us?
[KEIICHI] She said on the
phone that she was ready
to put her full energy into it!
[laughs]
That does sound like her.
[MION]
Huh? There they are.
Oh, hey, Mion!
Sorry we're late!
Good to see you two!
I'll be joining you
this evening!
Where are Satoko and Rika?
[MION] Rika's on her way
to pick up Satoko now.
[SHION] So, the whole gang
will be back together!
[RENA]
Mm‐hmm.
I'm sure that tonight's going
to be a special night!
[SATOKO]
Goodness.
It seems you're finally awake.
[TEPPEI]
My head feels really heavy.
What the hell is this?
[TEPPEI barfs]
Uncle, your timing is terrible.
Rika is on her way
to fetch me as we speak.
And she'll be expecting
to find a pitiable princess,
rescued from the clutches
of her abusive uncle.
Then when we cross paths with
the villagers at the festival,
they'll fawn over me,
and tell me how glad they
are to see that I'm safe.
Wait, Satoko.
What are you sayin'?
What happened with you
while I was passed out?
I thought the villagers
were gangin' up on you.
[sighs]
So, Uncle...
What's up?
How has it been for you,
living here in the house
with me for the past week?
[TEPPEI]
I've really liked it.
I might be happier
than a rotten bastard
like me has any right to be.
Well, I couldn't
be happier to hear that.
But this is where it ends.
Wait, Satoko?
[SATOKO]
This is where you die.
[gunshot]
Huh?!
What... Wh‐What
the hell is this?
[SATOKO]
Please, Uncle. Run!
Oh, no, no.
We are certainly
not having any of that!
[SATOKO]
Listen. You have to get away!
Get out of here!
Wait, Satoko! Talk to me!
What's going on?
You're being a fool!
[SATOKO]
Please, stop it!
What do you think
you're doing, here?
I'm done with all this!
I don't want any of it anymore!
I don't wanna kill my uncle.
Or anybody.
I don't want anyone else to die!
All I've done.
All these loops
I've lived through
are to ensure Satoko Hojo
finally gets to be happy!
You've turned
into somebody else.
You're not me anymore!
I am my true self!
Give me back Satoko!
You're talking nonsense.
I am the only Satoko.
[laughs]
So, what are you, then?
Simply the dregs of some
long‐discarded fragment,
claiming to be the real Satoko.
You're wrong!
You're that, and nothing else.
There's nothing to give back.
because I am Satoko Hojo.
And you have no reason to exist.
[SATOKO]
I don't know.
I don't know exactly
where I went wrong.
But I went wrong somewhere!
I love Rika.
I love her more than anything.
I want to be with her forever!
And I finally learned
to be honest about that.
But I must have made a mistake.
And that means you
have to be wrong, too!
It's clear from my perspective.
Your mistake was
rejecting this reality,
desperately clinging to
the emotions of past lives.
I am Satoko Hojo.
One who lives in loops.
One who traverses
the great sea of fragments.
Indeed. What I am is a witch.
[EUA laughs]
Eua, why?
[EUA] Your tale‐‐or rather,
the tale you have shared,
has entertained unceasingly,
even to this very moment!
I have invested such a meager
bit of my power in you,
yet profited so greatly from it!
[SATOKO]
You mean, you knew?
You knew everything
from the start?
[EUA] I must say,
though you were clearly happy
to make use of my power,
your way of expressing it
was quite grating at times.
And yet,
I cannot say you've
ever failed to amuse.
Satoko.
Therefore, if your current
state brings you such anguish.
I shall relieve you
of all the painful emotions
that burden you,
as a way of reward for the
entertainment you've given me.
[laughs]
Even still, you are
boundlessly entertaining!
I've been such a fool.
Goodness.
Thankfully, I'm the
furthest thing from stupid.
Satoko?
[RIKA] Next time:
"Tatariakashi‐hen, Part 5."